Restless: Pawns with this trait do not like to stay in one place too long, taking all their important belongings with them. 

The pawn will go on wanders even if happy and will not have any other mental breaks. They will have the go-frenzy inspiration after a wander. They have an increased carrying capacity, move speed, and reduced rate of getting tired.

Shut-in: Pawns with this trait are only truly happy while in their room. The pawn The longer they stay indoors, the happier they are. To relieve stress, the pawn will hide in their room if their mood is low. The pawn will only have mental breaks related to their room.

Morbid: Pawns with this trait are fascinated with dead bodies. The pawn has no bad thoughts related to corpses and often will, in fact, dig them up to marvel at them. The pawn doesn't mind if a funeral, execution, or sacrifice goes bad. The pawn can use morbid meditation foci.

Deadened Nerves: Pawns with this trait have deadened nerves and can't feel physical sensations properly. The pawn doesn't feel comfort or discomfort properly. They have no thoughts related to their physical state. They move and work slower but don't feel pain and are barely staggered.

Oblivious: Pawns with this trait are lost in their own heads most of the time and don't pay much attention to their surroundings. They aren't moved by great beauty, don't take the time to feel comfortable in their own bed, or notice the growing piles of dirt and puddles of blood and vomit around them.

Benevolent: Pawns with this trait hate to see others suffer and will go well out of their way to prevent it, even in those that direly wronged them. When upset by the dire circumstances around the pawn, they may be moved to release anyone trapped in the area as quickly as possible. They are good at social interactions and spreading their ideology.

Simple: Pawns with this trait were never great at complex tasks, though they were gifted in doing the few things they could reasonably understand very well. They had no need for learning as a child.

Ennui: Pawns with this trait are bored with this life and always desire some mental stimulation from their passions to get past this perpetual driving boredom.

Malchemist: Pawns with this trait like being sick and like making others sick. When it comes to drugs and poison, no one else is more knowledgeable.

Cold Resistant: For whatever reason, pawns with this trait have a resistance to cold. This causes the pawn to complain about heat sooner than others.

Heat Resistant: For whatever reason, pawns with this trait have a resistance to heat. This causes the pawn to complain about the cold sooner than others.

Francophilia: Pawns with this trait have an active and unrestrained hostility to the material world. The pawn suffers no mood penalty for wearing damaged apparel. If their mood is low, they will seek out a random object to break. They can meditate as natural foci but not artistic foci as a result. They are great at butchering machines and nature-based endeavors.

Gloom Dweller: Pawns with this trait like to live in the shadows, where it is harder to notice them. The pawn appreciates the camouflage the rain and dark bring. They spend their life hiding from others. They have high hunting stealth.

Torpid: Pawns with this trait have grown up with an amazingly slow metabolism. The pawn is capable of going days without eating, but they spend a significant fraction of their life sleeping as a result. Given how much time they spend in it, they value a comfortable bed highly. They rarely get sick for long, as their body spends extra time healing.

Animal Attuned: Pawns with this trait are highly attuned to animals and feel much more comfortable around them than around other colonists. Colonists may smell better than animals, but their animal friends are truly better than colonists.  Will always get an inspired taming frenzy after a mental break.  

Psychically Inverted: Pawns with this trait are not affected by ambient psychic phenomena the way others are. The pawn often ends up with the opposite of the intended effect.

Spiteful: Pawns with this trait are always on the lookout for how to take others down a peg. The pawn can see the faults and weaknesses of others at a glance and isn't afraid to use those to get his/her way. When angered, they lash out at others with this talent, though they may regret the pawn's actions later. They are good at trade and negotiation and are accurate in combat.

Misotherist: Pawns with this trait suffer from a great contempt for animals and nature known as misothery. The pawn wants to pave over every bit of nature, and when their mood is low, they will slaughter colony animals. They will always get a shooting frenzy afterwards. They are highly skilled at construction and butchering flesh.

Socially Numb: Pawns with this trait do not have any strong opinions on social situations. There are few interpersonal things on the rim that will affect them for good or for ill.

Food Apathy: Pawns with this trait shovel food quickly into their mouths, not caring what it tastes like or is made from. They have no thoughts related to food or where they ate. They gain more nutrition from raw food.